# Alpine Linux RPi Setup

I use Alpine linux on my second computer (Raspberry Pi 3 Model B+). This document lists the steps used to setup my system. All the refrence links can be found at the bottom of this document.
_

## Getting Started

The first step is grabbing a RPi archive from the Alpine Linux downloads page.

### Preparing the SD card:

First, check the device name. Most likely going to be /dev/mmcblk0

```
fdisk -l
```

Now we can create two partitions on the SD card. One for boot, another for everything else.

```
fdisk /dev/mmcblk0
```

* Delete exixting partitions if required using 'd' command.
* Use 'n' to create new partition at position 1.
* Press ENTER for default start location.
* Allocate +256M for end position.
* Use 't', set type to 'WIN95 FAT32 (LBA)'
* Use 'n' to create new partition at position 2.
* Press ENTER for default start location.
* Press ENTER for default end location to cover entire remaining space.
* Use 't', set type to 'Linux'
* Use 'a' to mark partition 1 as bootable.
* Use 'w' to write changes to SD card.

Now we gotta format the partitions we just created (make sure to check the name of partitions using 'fdisk -l'):

In my case partitions were '/dev/mmcblk0p1' and '/dev/mmcblk0p2' (may need e2fsprogs for ext4 formatting)

```
mkdosfs -F 32 /dev/mmcblk0p1
mkfs.ext4 /dev/mmcblk0p2
```

Create a directory for mounting partition 1 and extract the Alpine archive in it:

```
mkdir /mnt/myalpine
mount /dev/mmcblk0p1 /mnt/myalpine
cd /mnt/myalpine
tar xvfz ~/Downloads/alpine-rpi-*-aarch64.tar.gz
```

Due to a bug, it is recommended to add a file named 'usercfg.txt' in the partition. The second line enables audio. With following data:

```
enable_uart=1
dtparam=audio=on
```

Un-mount the partition:

```
umount /mnt/myalpine
```

Hooray! The SD card is all set to boot and start installation.
_

## Installing Alpine Linux

Insert the SD card into RPi. Connect your display and keyboard. Power everything up!

Login using 'root' (requires no password)

We will use Alpine's default setup script:

```
setup-alpine
```

* Use '?' where in doubt.
* Enter 'none' at 'save config' and 'save cache'

Mount partition 2 and install alpine:

```
mount /dev/mmcblk0p2 /mnt
export FORCE_BOOTFS=1
setup-disk -m sys /mnt
```

Remount partiton 1 and cleanup:
```
mount -o remount,rw /media/mmcblk0p1
rm -f /media/mmcblk0p1/boot/*
cd /mnt
rm boot/boot
```

The right place for boot is in partition 1:

```
mv boot/* /media/mmcblk0p1/boot/
```

We don't need boot in partition 2 now:

```
rm -Rf boot
```

A directory for partition 1 on next boot:

```
mkdir media/mmcblk0p1
```

A link for boot from partition 1. Don't worry about error.

```
ln -s media/mmcblk0p1/boot boot
```

Update /etc/fstab:

```
echo "/dev/mmcblk0p1 /media/mmcblk0p1 vfat defaults 0 0" >> etc/fstab
set -i '/cdrom/d' etc/fstab
set -i '/floppy/d' etc/fstab
cd /media/mmcblk0p1
```

Indicate the root filesystem is on partition 2

```
sed -i 's/$/ root=\/dev\/mmcblk0p2/' /media/mmcblk0p1/cmdline.txt
```

The installation is now complete, you can use 'poweroff' to continue steps after installation later or use 'reboot' to restart system and continue with post-installation steps.
_

## Post Installation Setup

Enable Software Clock and Disable hardware clock

```
rc-update add swclock boot
rc-update del hwclock boot
```

Enable checking time using Network Time Protocol

```
setup-ntp
```

Updating System

```
apk update
apk upgrade
```

Now any applications of liking may be installed. My setup may be found in 'Doc/My Configurations' in this website.
_

## Refrences and Links

=> https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Classic_install_or_sys_mode_on_Raspberry_Pi ⚬ RPi Sys Installation
=> https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi ⚬ Rpi General Installation
=> https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi_-_Headless_Installation ⚬ RPi Headless Installation
=> https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi_3_-_Browser_Client ⚬ RPi Browser Client
=> https://docs.alpinelinux.org/user-handbook/0.1a/index.html ⚬ Alpine User Handbook
_

See ya!

^ Patience is a golden virtue 🌾
