# Fresh Ubuntu Install

This document assumes that a minimal install of Ubuntu has already been performed and lists the steps to be followed now.
_

## Installing and Removing packages

### Remove Snapd:

I prefer using apt and like its model of sharing dependencies instead of sandboxing everything. Works well for me :)

```
sudo rm -rf /var/cache/snapd
sudo apt purge snapd gnome-software-plugin-snap
sudo apt autoremove
rm -rf ~/snap
sudo rm -rfv /var/lib/apt/lists/*
sudo apt update
```

### Remove GUI Update Manager:

I update my packages when I need to, don't need the constant stream of update notifications.

```
sudo apt remove update-manager
```

### Install Packages:

I like to install these packages first and start tinkering with my system while the other packages install in the background.

```
sudo apt install gnome-tweaks ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

Other packages:

```
sudo apt install build-essential python3 curl git ssh keepassx vlc transmission thunderbird libreoffice inxi acpi rename usb-creator-gtk software-properties-gtk chrome-gnome-shell
```
_

## Configurations:

### Enable Minimize:

```
gsettings set org.gnome.shell.extensions.dash-to-dock click-action 'minimize'
```

### Disable Notifications Popups:

Create a startup application with this command.

```
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.notifications show-banners false
```
_

## Optimization for reducing SSD writes

### Check current sappiness:

```
cat /proc/sys/vm/swappiness
```

### Change it to 10:

Doing this causes the swap storage to be used when RAM is 90% in use.

```
sudo nano /etc/sysctl.conf
```

At the end of this file add: vm.swappiness=10

###  Disable file time-stamp update:

```
sudo nano /etc/fstab
```

Add noatime after errors=remount-ro followed by a comma.
Like This: errors=remount-ro,noatime
(Save and Reboot)
_

## Some other things

These programs need to be installed from the web. Go can be installed using the 'getgo' function added in .bashrc.

* kdeconnect plugin
* micro
* vscode
* go
* discord
* telegram
* steam

Customise terminal, text editor and add new fonts like JetBrains Mono and Roboto.
_

That's all folks.

^ Starting is the first step 🐣

