#  Git Blast Sheet

Git feels like magic. Truly amazing tool. Best place to use is a UNIX-like system. You can also use Git Bash if you are using windows.
_

## Initial Setup

After installing git it needs to be configured. Something like this:

```
git config --global user.name "Arsh Jethi"
git config --global user.email "arshjethi@example.com"
git config --global --list
```

Next, it is always nice to setup ssh for ease of use later. For that first we need to generate a set of asymmetric encryption keys:

```
ssh-keygen -t rsa
```

This generates encryption keys of type that use an algorithm called rsa.

```
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

Now we can conveniently copy the public key and put it in the Settings>SSH section of our remote repository (likely Github or Gitlab).
_

##  New Local Repository

Initialize git in your project directory.

```
git init
```

Add files to staging area. The dot add's all changed/added files. You can also stage individual files by naming them.

You can create a file named .gitignore and list files in it that you don't want git to track.

```
git add .
```

Commit what you added to staging area.

```
git commit -m 'message'
```

Now, you can check status of your project directory.

```
git status
```
_

## Link to remote repository

Whatever we did so far was done on the local system. To sync this project with a remote repository we must create a new repository in our remote host and then link this project with that. The SSH keys setup before authenticates us. By default git creates branch named 'master'. While Github creates a branch named 'main'. To change the master branch to main we use the next command.

```
git branch -M main
git remote add origin git@github.com:jethi/repo-name.git
git push -u origin main
```

Origin is a standard alias for the repository used when talking to remote repo. The git push above has '-u' flag, which means set-upstream. It is necessary to add this flag for the first time to link to the remote repository. This enable argument-less use of several commands like git-pull. I highly recommend reading the documentation.

Now, you can simply send the changes done in the recent commit to the remote repo by a simple.

```
git push
```

You can also fetch changes done in the repo by a fellow collaborator.

```
git pull
```

Cloning a remote repo. You can clone a open-source remote repository on you system easily and even fetch changes done to the repo.

```
git clone repository-url
```

The repo cloned above would already be linked to upstream. But you can't push changes in it without appropiate permissions. You can always make a pull request though.
_

##  You made a mistake ?

If you added changes to staging area from mistake, you can unstage them like this:

```
git reset HEAD file-name
```

We can also discard changes to a file done in a recent commit.

```
git checkout -- file-name
```

Delete a file being tracked.

```
git rm file-name
```

Rename a file being tracked.

```
git mv initial-name new-name
```
_

## The power of git

You can check your previous commits and revert to any of them. This can also be done for a single file. How cool is that ?

'git log' helps us do that:

```
git help log
```

Some ways to see previous commits:

```
git log
git log --abbrev-commit
git log --oneline --graph --decorate
git log hash-from hash-to
git log --since="1 day ago"
```
_

## Branches

Basic stuff. I recommend learning more from the documentation.

How to create a branch ? First let's list all branches.

```
git branch
git branch -a
```

The '-a' flag lists all branches local + remote. 'master' is the default branch.

Creating a new branch:

```
git branch name-of-new-branch
```

To switch to another branch we use the term 'checkout':

```
git checkout other-branch
```

We can also create and switch to a branch in one command:

```
git checkout -b new-branch-name
```

Rename a branch:

```
git branch -m old-name new-name
```

Deleting a branch:

Note: A branch you are currently on cannot be deleted.

```
git branch -d name-of-branch
```

Merging branches:

Note: The branch name supplied below gets merged into the branch you are currently checked-in on.

```
git merge branch-name
```
_

That's it for now. Make sure you read more about branches, merging, merging vs rebasing and diff. Keep learning !!!

^ Believe in yourself 🐻

